---
layout: post
title: Week Of April 25, 2016
---

This week, I studied for the final, starting with the GitHub exercises we did in class.

This upcoming week, I have to keep studying, and focus mainly on the Google Doc and the articles/textbook.

Next week, I'll have my Game Tech project in the way, which I will have to finish. Other than that, I have nothing else in my way.

Looking at how structs work in C++, I'm kind of divided as to whether or not they're a good idea, specifically as to whether they have been improved in C++ from C. To me, and maybe this is because I started using structs in C, a struct should be just a group of data that is adjacent in memory so that creating duplicate sets of items is made easier. The fact that structs in C++ effectively function as full on public classes makes me wonder why not just use a public class. I understand that for structs, the expectation is that you can just call everything and the struct has nothing to hide, but at the end of the day, you can do that with a class as well and only the nomenclature seems to be the difference. If someone wants to correct me on this, feel free. The way handlers work is also kind of weird. I understand that without them you can't effectively template an abstract class, but the way that they work looks kind of hack-ish, in the sense that while they are heavily involved in the use of the abstract class and its derivatives, they are not technically part of the heirarchy. I wonder why C++'s templating system did not support handling abstract classes to begin with. 

Tip of the Week:

It's a good habit when writing an elaborate function to insert "narration comments" into the code, which basically output what the program just did or is about to do, after almost every line. Unit tests are good for catching problems and gdb is good for finding out the nature of the problems, but inline comments are invaluable towards finding out where exactly those problems are occuring, and in the hands of a good programmer, can be much easier to read than automatically generated valgrind or gdb output. A cleaner programmer can put these in unit tests instead, but without access to the function body the comments become a lot more vague. Leaving the inline comments in after the function has been shown to work, however, is terrible design, so you should never commit code this way, at least never to the master branch.
