---
layout: post
title: Week Of March 28, 2016
---

This week, I finished up my Game Tech project and learned more about data structures in C++. I also worked on the Darwin project insofar as getting basic implementation of classes done so I can start testing next week.

As it turns out, my interview is this upcoming week, and my Vector Cal exam is next week, so I had my schedule all twisted. So, in my way next week are preparing for my interview, and studying Vector Cal.

Next week, I'll finish up Darwin. I need to start testing but I'm pretty sure I have everything right; the assignment is straightforward insofar as it's not about getting an intricate algorithm to work like the past assignments, it's just about having control over class structure.

The Atlassian guy's speech was quite interesting, and it was cool to see a face behind a lot of tools that I've worked with professionally. I like Atlassian's tools overall, especially how Bitbucket gives you unlimited private repos, but I never got into working with JIRA, since I like having my issue tracker in the same place as my version control, a la Github. The papers on getters and setters were really interesting. They actually kind of made me feel guilty because my coding style used to revolve around them a lot, but I really do get their point. If a developer can access all the private variables with get and set methods they might as well just make the variables public. Real object oriented structure should revolve around methods that make the classes more intuitive to use. However, this can go too far in my opinion, as I've seen libraries that hide so much important information behind vague methods that I preferred to just implement them myself rather than spend hours figuring out what the hell these methods with like twenty overrides are supposed to do. I think getters and setters have their place, but like all things they need to be used in moderation.

Tip of the Week:

Microsoft is FINALLY bringing Linux shell commands to Windows. I know you've probably heard about it a million times up to now but this is huge. I might finally start using my Windows machine for development again. The DOS commands were technically fine, but that's like saying that Hong Kong making cars drive on the left hand side of the road is technically fine. It might work for some people, but if I'm ever there I'm just not getting behind the wheel because it's not what I'm  used to.
