---
layout: post
title: Week Of April 11, 2016
---

This week, I started working on Life, and officially got accepted into an intern position at Aspyr media for the summer!

This upcoming week, I have to finish up Life, and other than that I'm just grinding through all my classes as usual and getting ready for registration; there isn't much in my way.

Next week, I'll wrap up Life, which shouldn't be too much of a problem given that I already have a class structure and plan ready, and the project feels similar enough to Darwin.

Working on Life and Darwin have had me realizing how important sleek object oriented structure is to writing and testing a program. While I was writing Darwin I frequently found myself frustrated by the amount of thought it took to not write getters and setters all over the place, but then when I actually started writing in the test harness I realized that all that thought led to a class that was used with minimal actual *programming,* and that made writing the best species a lot easier. I'm finding much of the same to be true with Life. However, I do wonder how easy it is to uphold these principles when dealing with libraries that aren't built with the same care; I've used several libraries in the past that are written with quite a few getters and setters and require a fair bit of hassle to get working properly, and creating nice looking code using those libraries got a lot harder and typically required a lot of helper methods and other things to hide that library's use. Darwin and Life are both written from the ground up. It would be quite interesting to write a similar project using a pre-existing library or interface.

Tip of the Week:

Recently, id Software, who have been pioneers in 3D game engines for years, released the beta for their reboot of Doom. The Doom reboot is the first commercial game to use the new Vulkan graphics platform, which will be replacing Open GL as the newest version of that platform (it's effectively OpenGL 5). Vulkan doesn't do anything particularly fancy, but it's a more efficient platform than Open GL that allows graphics cards to make more use out of their fancy circuits. As a result, Doom has a lot of cool lighting and shader features that certainly have been done before, but haven't been able to run quite as well in realtime, particularly the way light bounces off of metallic surfaces dynamically. I think the beta's over after today but check out some footage if you want to see pretty graphics; the game is pretty much just another shooter but it certainly is something to look at.

