---
layout: post
title: Week Of May 2, 2016
---

This week, I took the class final, thus ending my semester of OOP.

This upcoming week, I have to prepare for my internship this summer, which will be using C++ and applying many of the principles I learned in class this semester.

Next week, I'll a final project and a final exam in my way, but other than that, my semester's over.

As a whole, this has been one of the most valuable classes I've taken at UT thus far. Following Data Structures, I kind of just assumed that that was 90% of what programming is about and everything after that is just a specialization or some extra low level knowledge, but this class definitely proved me wrong. It made me question a lot of the object oriented design principles I've applied to my work in the past, particularly my use of extends and liberal public access to private data. This class taught me that every declaration in a program dramatically affects the code's usability in the long run and that a good program isn't just written for efficiency, but also for usability and for comprehensibility. Of course, this isn't the first time I've been told that, but up to now the solution to that postulate has mostly come in the form of "add comments," "put the brackets in the right place," and "give everything a logical name." This class taught me how to actually write smart code that ensures that others who use it will know how, and having a partner for projects illustrated that very well, as I'd have to play off my partner's code and vice versa on a regular basis, so we couldn't afford to write sloppy code. This class also introduced me to unit tests and CI, which I had only heard of up to now but never used. I'm also a lot more comfortable with GitHub now. As for the final, it was a fair assessment of what we've learned thus far, b ut it was also a bit too long for 50  minutes.

Tip of the Week:

A lot of the programming tactics we've learned this semester correspond to design patterns, which are commonly accepted design structures used by software developers everywhere to consistently produce efficient code. There is a really good book by O'Reilly, which I'm reading right now, that sums up these patterns and reiterates on some of the things we've read this year.

http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596007126.do

Yes, it was written in 2004, but much of what it teaches remains very relevant even today. If you're interested in expanding upon what we've learned this semester, albeit in Java instead of C++ (which I'm sure few people will complain about anyway), I can't recommend this book enough.
