---
layout: post
title: Week Of April 4, 2016
---

This week, I finished my Darwin project, albeit somewhat late, learned more about vectors, interviewed with a company, and unfortunately couldn't come to the class on Friday because I got sick.

This upcoming week is my Vector Cal exam, and I need to work on other classes as usual. Other than that, there's less in my way than usual.

Next week, I'll get started on Project 5 ASAP and also start preemptively studying for the final in this class, which I know will be difficult.

We've been talking about vectors a lot in this class, and it makes me think back to when I heard someone tell me that the guy who invented C++ once said that at the end of the day, the only data structure you really need to work with most of the time is vector. I'm not sure if this is true, and even if it is, it's obviously a really dumb thing to say, but it makes me think about a lot of devs out there who really do lean on these STL type classes too much in their work; I know people who when programming in Java always use ArrayList instead of normal arrays which barely require any knowledge of memory or locality at all in Java unlike in C++. Programming is becoming a really popular field and not a lot of the people entering it are UT students who take classes on low level C++ programming. Many of those people work in industry. It makes me wonder how much of the software we currently use is programmed efficiently, and how much of it is the work of people who lean on things like vector a lot. Don't get me wrong, it is a really useful thing, but it also impacts memory and CPU usage a lot and sometimes with static lists that don't change size you really don't need it. Darwin also gave me that kind of feeling, because I know from experience how overused getters and setters are in industry, and it makes me wonder if it makes any sense to use object oriented tools when your team doesn't even know how to use them correctly, because the kind of nightmare scenario the getters and setters article described would have worked and worked faster if it were written in C.

Tip of the Week:

This isn't practical at all, but @ThePracticalDev on Twitter has recently been posting a lot of *hilarious* parody O'Reilly programming book covers, like this one for example:

https://twitter.com/thepracticaldev/status/705825638851149824

Check it out if you want something funny. I was laughing for a good ten minutes at these things.
