---
layout: post
title: Week Of April 18, 2016
---

This week, I finished Life and started studying for the final.

This upcoming week, I have to keep studying for the upcoming exam, and review all material on the schedule.

Next, I'll have my final Game Tech project in the way, and some Vector Cal. The Game Tech project will take up a lot of time so I'll have to be careful to find the time to study for the final midterm.

Learning the virtual method system has been interesting because it's the first time I've seen a C++ feature that's so substantially different from other languages I've used. The complex system of operations involved seemed rather daunting at first, but Life helped me understand it all. I want to make an extension of Life that animates the evolutions in real time. I noticed evolution patterns while working on it that were pretty cool. My unit tests for the evolution function actually involved detecting patterns over time, specifically how some cells would get stuck in one place infinitely at a certain point. One pattern alternated between two mirror versions of the same grid.

Tip of the Week:

Sublime has many extensions to offer, including SFTP, which allows you to remotely build your project without SSH. It's worth it to modify your text editor to make development as comfortable and versatile as possible. There are also addons like SublimeCodeIntel that can provide intelligent auto complete similarly to many IDE's. That does kind of defeat the purpose of a text editor, but it might be useful nonetheless.
