---
layout: post
title: Week Of March 21, 2016
---

This week, I finished up my Allocator project. I didn't find the project too difficult. Most of it was just casting pointers a million different ways. The heap itself was a very simple implementation. I also learned more about const than I ever thought I'd need.

In my way next week is studying for an imminent Vector Cal exam and a Game Tech project. Neither of those things should stand in the way of OOP too much. I also have an on site interview with Aspyr here in Austin.

Next week, I'll mainly read my textbook and some of the class exercises again. I mainly have to study up on Data Structures to prepare for my interview.

What we're learning in class is quite straightforward now, but one thing that bugs me are how we're learning to use default variables. I've seen them used in professional environments before, and I kind of despise them to be honest. In my opinion, the user should always initialize in the function body, even default variables, so that bad code can be caught by the compiler. Putting defaults in the header encourages lazy programming as far as not trying to account for all edge cases in the function because that default variable might save you.

Tip of the Week:

git commit -m close #[issue number]

Really. It's SUPER useful. Saved me so much time on my personal project. We should teach it in class, honestly. The issue tracker is kind of worthless to me when done through a browser because I procrastinate on closing the issues officially.
