---
layout: post
title: Week Of February 15, 2016
---

This week, I worked on the Voting project, which unfortunately had a few delays due to my interview with Adobe in California. I completed it in its entirety on my own, and in doing so I learned how to utilize the Google Tests library extensively. I had a major issue with the online judge used in the project choking up because of formatting issues regarding the final line of input, so that took quite a bit of edge case testing to get running properly. I also began looking at the class GitHub more extensively in preparation for the test on the Friday after the next.

I started the project off without a partner because I knew I'd have the interview in the way of the due date, so setting up the project was quite difficult. Between that and the California interview, there was too much in my way to finish the project on time. So, as of this week, I have around a 5 point deficit in my total grade. I also have several exams and events next week keeping me from doing the amount of studying I want.

As such, I'll have to study really hard for the first exam next week, and also start Project 3 as early as possible. I'm planning on going through the class GitHub several times next week in preparation.

In class, I find the C++ we're learning to be fairly rudimentary. Equal, Copy, and Fill are all functions I've written variants of in the past, so I'm mainly interested in the overall workflow shown to us using Google Test to verify that the functions work. One thing that throws me off are how arrays are traversed pointer style in the class examples.

Tip Of The Week: While writing the Voting project, I found that during the initial phases of the algorithm code's development, printing extra lines of text out to the command line that "narrated"  the code was really helpful, especially "Entering (Function Name)" at the start of each function. It helped me debug somewhat faster than with just gdb.
