---
layout: post
title: Week Of February 2, 2016
---

This week, I studied for the test next Friday by going through the class GitHub pages. I also heard a speaker talk about the Open Source community and how it can make development easier by providing readily available libraries for free that simplify implementing features.

I don't have much in the way of me getting more studying done aside from just work and regular stuff. I finished my last non-OOP midterm last week, so I should have a pretty clear schedule.

Next week, I'll continue studying and broaden my material to include the readings posted on the calendar, the class Google Doc, and the textbook readings; I plan on covering all material related to the class before the test.

I found the Open Source speaker to have some good points, but in my experience, Open Source has a plethora of issues that make it not the perfect haven for free code that the speaker made it out to be. Last week I had to install an Open Source 3D engine for my Game Tech class, and because the repo for the engine has been modified by many people, some of whom don't know how to merge and branch correctly, the engine had bugs that I had to fix, and really stupid bugs at that. Furthermore, in my experience many people in the Open Source community are kind of unpredictable in that half the time they make really good content, and the other half of the time they make cryptic or borderline useless stuff that only they understand. That engine, for example, is used to make 3D games, but has no visual editing tool of any sort. For a class it's a cool learning experience, but in real life nobody would use that. Even in the 90s game developers had visual editing tools to work with!

Tip Of The Week: Running diff before any git commit has made it a lot easier for me to see if I accidentally damaged my code between commits.
