---
layout: post
title: Week Of February 29, 2016
---

This week, I studied for and took the first exam in the class. Despite the fact that I studied heavily for the exam, I still found it to be difficult, largely because the amount of time we had to take the test was nowhere near enough. I type over 200 words per minute, and even then I didn't have time to both think about and type up all the coding questions. It didn't help that Canvas' interface is not well suited for coding. I also found it disappointing that topics I studied for such as lambda expressions and SOLID OOP did not show up on the test at all. In fact, the only topic I didn't have time to study in length, writing custom iterators, comprised 40 points of the exam.

All I have in my way as of now is a huge game tech lab that actually puts a lot of stuff I've learned in this classs to the test. It will significantly take up my time in the coming weeks and involves networking.

Next week, I'll start on Project 3 and find a partner ASAP. Between the last exam and the whole debacle with the Adobe interview delaying Project 2, I need to be on full alert in this class.

The RangeIterator material in the class was somewhat confusing to me, mainly because I don't really see the need to create a subclass for it. In fact, when I had a similar question on the exam, I forgot to make a subclass because it just didn't come naturally to me. Furthermore, I don't see why we couldn't just but begin() and end() in the iterator class itself. I should really look over that section one more time and maybe go to office hours, because while I'm understanding everything else perfectly so far, this topic could come back to haunt me.

Tip Of The Week: One thing I've learned in my other programming class, Game Tech, is that issue tracking in GitHub should be split into two categories: short term issues that need to be dealt with for the current component of the project, and long term issues that need to be tackled one at a time; I made it a rule for myself to never close a long term issue until all short term issues are closed, and create a new set of short term issues when I move on to the next long term issues. I also add short term issues periodically if any unexpected stuff comes up. That structure allowed me to implement an entire 3D game engine class system in like two days, so I can attest to its power. 
